JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Gwen Ifill is away.
On the "NewsHour" tonight: The
federal government
closes for a second day and the
death toll
climbs, as the East continues to
dig itself
out of that massive snowfall.
Then: President Obama bans
solitary confinement
for juveniles in federal prison,
saying the
practice has lasting and
devastating effects.
And we celebrate the birthday of
genius composer
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart by
taking apart one
of his masterpieces.
ROB KAPILOW, Composer: This is
on everybody's
cell phone ring tone.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
ROB KAPILOW: Everyone has heard
this. Even
if you think you have never
heard a note of...
JEFFREY BROWN: Right.
(CROSSTALK)
ROB KAPILOW: ... music, this is
the one you
have heard.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: More people and
places along
the snowbound East Coast got
back to normal
and got back to work today. But
the death
toll rose to 45, and, in
Washington, D.C.,
especially, there was still a
lot of digging
out to do.
The nation's capital lurched
slowly back to
life on this third day after the
great blizzard.
Federal offices remained closed,
but work
crews were out early to clear
more snow, and
the mayor sounded cautiously
optimistic.
MURIEL BOWSER (D), Mayor of
Washington, D.C.:
We have finished two full days
of plowing
and removal, and our crews made
good progress
through the night. They have
gotten down to
asphalt on all major arteries.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Washington's
subway system
was also back to near-normal
operations, albeit
with some delays. But many side
streets remained
unplowed, and emergency manager
Chris Geldart
said the focus now is getting
into those neighborhoods.
CHRISTOPHER GELDART, Director,
D.C. Homeland
Security and Emergency
Management Agency:
That operation will continue
through today
and through tonight. We're
monitoring progress
every two hours on where we are
to ensure
that we have no areas in the
city that we
have not touched and that are
not passable.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That effort will
be vital to
reopening D.C. public schools
tomorrow.
Another concern: how to pay for
the massive
cleanup effort that's eating up
most of the
city's annual snow removal
budget of $6.2
million. D.C. officials have
asked for federal
disaster assistance. And another
kind of help
arrived today in the form of a
snow melter,
on loan from Indianapolis. It
was quickly
deployed to tackle the mountains
of snow being
collected from city streets.
MAN: We have water inside this,
like, a giant
hot tub, basically, get the BTUs
to get the
temperature up to a certain
level, then just
start loading it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, New
York City with
a much larger snow budget has
recovered more
quickly and is already clearing
outer boroughs
of snow.
In the day's other news, Wall
Street surged
ahead as oil prices turned
higher again. The
Dow Jones industrial average
gained more than
280 points to close at 16167.
The Nasdaq rose
49 points, and the S&P 500 added
26.
A congressional task force today
called for
keeping more nonviolent
criminals out of federal
prison, and saving $5 billion in
the process.
The panel recommended
prosecuting -- quote
-- "only the most serious cases"
and repealing
mandatory minimum penalties for
many drug
offenses. That could cut the
federal prison
population by 60,000 in 2024.
It's now nearly
200,000.
In Syria, bombings erupted in
the central
part of the country, killing at
least 20 people
and wounding more than 100. The
Islamic State
group claimed responsibility for
the attacks
in Homs. They struck just three
days before
peace talks are supposed to
begin, and left
refugee officials warning of the
price of
failure.
JAN EGELAND, Secretary-General,
Norwegian
Refugee Council: As we do now
have momentum
to get agreements, we can, as
humanitarians,
reach the besieged areas, all of
them, within
days of the agreement. All of
the millions,
we ought to reach within weeks.
We can do
it. So, finally, if they lose
this momentum,
I think they will live to regret
it.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Meanwhile, Syrian
opposition
groups backed by Saudi Arabia
met in Riyadh
to decide whether to attend the
peace talks.
And Russia pushed for the main
Syrian Kurdish
party to participate, despite
opposition from
Turkey, which considers it a
terrorist group.
A policeman in Afghanistan shot
dead 10 other
officers late Monday in the
country's latest
insider attack. It happened in
the south,
in Uruzgan province, bordering
the Taliban
strongholds of Helmand and
Kandahar. One local
official said the victims were
sleeping when
they were killed. Another said
they'd been
drugged. The Taliban claimed
responsibility.
Travel warnings about the
mosquito-borne Zika
virus expanded today to the U.S.
Virgin Islands
and the Dominican Republic. The
Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention
said pregnant
women should consider postponing
any visit
there and to 22 other
destinations. Most are
in the Caribbean and in Latin
America. The
virus is being linked to birth
defects.
The official design for a new
World War I
memorial has been unveiled in
Washington.
Artist renderings today show
walls bearing
relief sculptures of soldiers,
with quotations.
Each cubic foot represents an
American soldier
who died in the war, a total of
116,516. The
memorial will be located near
the White House
in a small urban park.
Something old is new again in
the world of
Peter Rabbit. There's word today
that an unpublished
story by renowned children's
author Beatrix
Potter is bound for bookstores,
more than
a century after it was written.
Sharon Thomas of Independent
Television News
has the story.
SHARON THOMAS: "Once upon a
time, there was
a serious, well-behaved young
black cat. It
belonged to a kind old lady who
assured me
that no other cats could compare
with Kitty.
The tale of "Kitty-in-Boots"
tells the story
of a well-behaved cat who leads
a double life.
For more than a century, it lay
undiscovered.
Beatrix Potter penned 23 books
in her lifetime.
Now a 24th has been unearthed.
The tale of
"Kitty-in-Boots" was referenced
in an out-of-print
biography on the author. Three
manuscripts
were then found in the Victoria
and Albert
Museum archive in London.
Her classic "Peter Rabbit" has
been published
in 36 languages, and sold more
than 45 million
copies. Beatrix Potter had only
completed
a single drawing to go with
"Kitty-in-Boots."
The rest will be created by
illustrator Quentin
Blake.
PATRICIA ROUTLEDGE, Beatrix
Potter Society:
I mean, it will go like a hot
cake. It's tantalizing,
but, of course, the announcement
has been
made now.
SHARON THOMAS: This July marks
the 150th anniversary
of Beatrix Potter's birth. The
tale of "Kitty-in-Boots"
will be published in September.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And the story
that started
it all, "The Tale of Peter
Rabbit," was first
published in 1902.
And two passings of note.
Actor Abe Vigoda died today in
Woodland Park,
New Jersey. He was best known as
the mafia
captain Tessio in "The
Godfather," and as
the sad-sack Detective Fish in
the 1970s TV
series "Barney Miller." Abe
Vigoda was 94
years old.
And Concepcion Picciotto has
died at a Washington
homeless shelter. She staged a
three-decade
peace vigil outside the White
House, the longest
political protest in American
history.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
an end to
solitary confinement for
juveniles; the fine
line between promoting security
and fear on
the campaign trail; a push for
an alternative
to college; and much more.
In the latter part of his
tenure, President
Obama has put criminal justice
reform high
on his agenda.
His latest move includes a new
ban on solitary
confinement for juveniles in the
federal prison
system. The executive actions
also put new
limits on how long federal
prison officials
can use solitary for first-time
offenses.
The Department of Justice caps
its use at
two months, rather than a full
year. And the
president prohibited federal
officers from
using solitary for low-level
infractions.
Hari Sreenivasan has our look.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The
president's changes
would affect about 10,000
federal inmates
a year.
In an op-ed published in The
Washington Post,
the president cited the case of
Kalief Browder,
who went to prison at the age of
16 and committed
suicide at 22, about two years
after he was
released. He spent nearly two
years in solitary
at Rikers Island.
In the op-ed, the president says
-- quote
-- "Solitary confinement has the
potential
to lead to devastating, lasting
psychological
consequences. The United States
is a nation
of second chances, but the
experience of solitary
confinement too often undercuts
that second
chance."
We discuss these changes with
Shaka Senghor,
who was convicted of
second-degree murder
and sent to prison at the age of
19, and during
parts of his sentence, he spent
a total of
seven years in solitary. He's
written a memoir
and is with the group #Cut50, a
national bipartisan
initiative to reduce the prison
population.
And Maurice Chammah of The
Marshall Project,
a not-for-profit news
organization covering
the criminal justice system.
Maurice, I want to start with
you.
One of the critiques here is
that this is
going to affect a very small
population in
federal prison, compared to the
large populations
that we have in state prisons.
How significant
is this impact going to be?
MAURICE CHAMMAH, The Marshall
Project: That's
true.
It's kind of hard to tell at
this moment sort
of how widespread it will be.
One of the things
the president has done has been
to ban solitary
confinement for juveniles in the
system, and
in the federal prison system,
there's maybe
a dozen of that sort of inmate.
But across
the states, in state prisons and
jails, like
Rikers Island, where Kalief
Browder was, there
are thousands of juveniles who
are sometimes
held in solitary confinement.
And the president's actions
won't affect them,
though it is a signal, of
course, to people
who run prison systems around
the country
that the kind of national mood
is shifting
on this.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Shaka, I'm
sure you're excited
about the president's
announcement today,
but tell us a bit of why you
think this is
important. You had been in
solitary. What
did it do to you in the short
term and in
the long term?
SHAKA SENGHOR, #Cut50: Well, I'm
super excited
about the president's decision
today, because
I know the impact that it is
going to have
on men and women who are
currently in solitary
confinement in the federal
prison system.
And for me, personally, knowing
the devastating
impact of being in the most
barbaric and inhumane
environment, locked down for 23
hours a day,
and in some cases 24 hours a
day, I just think
that it's one of those type of
moments where
it helps people to think about,
you know,
what our responsibility is in
terms of men
and women who come home from
prison.
And we have a choice. We have a
choice whether
we want to bring home healthy
men and women
or broken men and women. And
when I was in
solitary confinement, I remember
dealing with
depression and dealing with, you
know, the
feeling of hopelessness. And
when you have
somebody incarcerated, the last
thing you
want to do is leave them with a
sense of hopelessness.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What did it do
to you when
you were coming out? What kind
of effects
did you still have to deal with
and maybe
even deal with today?
SHAKA SENGHOR: Well, after -- I
served a total
of seven years in solitary
confinement, and
at one point four-and-a-half
years straight.
And one of the things that I
struggled with
getting out was the ability to
just communicate
in normal ways with everyday
people. I wasn't
very trustworthy of people
touching me or
standing behind me. I dealt with
sensory deprivation.
I dealt with depth of field
perception.
I'll tell you, there was -- I
had a little
struggle driving and being able
to adjust
because I had been in a box for
so long. And
so it's small, nuanced things.
And, fortunately,
I was literate while I was in
solitary, so
I was able to read books about
Nelson Mandela
that kept me focused and kept me
strong.
But that's not the typical case
in an environment
where the majority of men that I
was around
were suffering from severe cases
of mental
illness, and if they didn't have
it going
in, they definitely left out
with it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: But, Maurice,
what is the
justification and rationale that
prison officials
give you for solitary
confinement?
MAURICE CHAMMAH: Well, there are
a few.
Usually, people are placed in
solitary confinement
because the wardens or the
correctional officers
in the institution feel that
that person might
be a threat. Either they
attacked someone
or they, you know, attacked, you
know, either
their cell mate or an officer.
But, you know, often, the
justification has
kind of stretched down into
smaller, more
mundane, mouthing off at an
officer or refusing
a direct order. You know,
they're -- one of
the major concerns I think a lot
of people
have is that correctional
officers have sort
of become overly used to using
solitary confinement
as a punishment.
Sometimes, you also hear the
justification
used that younger inmates, who
are maybe more
vulnerable, need to be in
solitary confinement
for their own protection.
Luckily, that rationale
has sort of slowly been ebbing
away, though
it still does exist in some
prisons.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Shaka, given
those reasons,
did solitary work? When you were
placed in
there, when you came out, did
your behavior
change toward what they wanted?
And I guess
the corollary to that is, what
would have
worked better?
SHAKA SENGHOR: In my instance,
it was more
a matter of what I chose to do
with the time
that I had when I was in
solitary confinement.
I actually set my cell up like I
was at a
college campus. But, again, that
speaks to
my literacy going in. To me,
there's really
no long-term benefits for
putting somebody
in solitary confinement. And I
think what
I would have benefited from was
actually counseling,
conflict resolution, and being
in an environment
that nourishes the healthy part
of human interactions.
And, unfortunately, that is just
not the way
our systems are designed. We
have a very punitive
system that has been a model for
decades.
And I think that what the
president has shown
is that we have to take a step
toward what
we really want to see outcomes
be, which is,
we want to make sure that
healthy men and
women are returning home.
And in order to do that, you
have to pour
into them a sense of respect,
dignity, hope,
and health. And when you fail to
do that,
you can't be surprised when the
outcomes aren't
positive.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Maurice, let's
talk a little
bit about some of the other
executive actions,
or at least the initiatives that
the administration
is trying to outline today,
besides just the
ones for juveniles.
MAURICE CHAMMAH: Sure.
Well, he's also limiting,
basically, the way
in which solitary confinement
can be used
sort of across the board within
the federal
prison system for people who
break rules.
And it kind of signals, sends a
message sort
of from the top down to Bureau
of Prison administrators
that they have to kind of figure
out a different
way to deal with people who
break rules within
federal prisons.
This is kind of broadly in line
with things
that different states have tried
out. The
president did mention sort of
state experiments
in his op-ed. And different
states are kind
of looking at ways to, instead
of put people
in solitary confinement, to do
sort of what
Shaka has been describing, to
give them counseling.
In Washington state, in
Colorado, they're
doing this. You're kind of
seeing that tide
shift a little bit and the
president's -- the
president's op-ed kind of is a
capstone for
that.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Shaka, in just
the brief amount of time we have
left, you're
working with an organization
that is trying
to move the ball forward on
different types
of criminal justice reform.
Is there a tipping point here?
There seems
to be some momentum that Maurice
is outlining.
SHAKA SENGHOR: Yes.
The work that I have been doing
with #Cut50
has been amazing, in the sense
that it gives
us an inside look at what
policies are being
put on the table. But the last
six months,
I mean, the president has set
the tone as
the leader in terms of assuring
that he's
paving the way by going inside
of prison,
really coming up with these
aggressive policies.
While we know that this only
impacts federal
prison, I'm confident that the
states will
pick up his leadership and take,
you know,
and follow his lead.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Shaka Senghor
from #Cut50, and Maurice Chammah
from The
Marshall Project, thanks so much
for joining
us.
MAURICE CHAMMAH: Thanks for
having us.
SHAKA SENGHOR: Thank you for
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to the race
for president.
Political director Lisa
Desjardins takes us
through the busy campaign trail
just in the
past day.
LISA DESJARDINS: In campaign
land, the biggest
heavyweight is now the calendar.
We're at
Tuesday, so candidates and
voters have just
six short days left until next
Monday, the
Iowa caucuses. And, as time
wanes, intensity
waxes.
CHRIS CUOMO, CNN: All right, we
are live at
Drake University.
LISA DESJARDINS: Last night, it
was Des Moines,
Iowa, where Democrats engaged at
a forum hosted
by CNN.
CHRIS CUOMO: Is Secretary
Clinton simply better
prepared for the job than you,
sir?
Don't leave. We have another 15
minute.
(LAUGHTER)
LISA DESJARDINS: Bernie Sanders,
the former
underdog, now co-front-runner,
was first on
stage.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS (VT-I),
Presidential Candidate:
This calls for a standing-up
response.
CHRIS CUOMO: OK.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: That's all.
LISA DESJARDINS: The Vermont
senator argued
that his judgment outweighs
Hillary Clinton's
experience.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Yes, it's
easy to get
rid of a dictator like Saddam
Hussein, but
there's going to be a political
vacuum. There
will be instability.
And it gives me no pleasure to
tell that much
of what I feared, in fact,
happened. Hillary
Clinton voted for the war in
Iraq.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (D),
Presidential Candidate:
I have a much longer history
than one vote,
which I have said was a mistake.
LISA DESJARDINS: Clinton
responded with a
double-punch, quoting President
Obama on depth
and readiness.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: He said,
you know,
you don't get to pick the issues
you work
on when you're president. A lot
of them come
at you. They come in the door
whether you
open it or not.
LISA DESJARDINS: The familiar
battle lines
felt sharper. Sanders, pressed
about his plan
to raise taxes on Wall Street,
wore it as
a badge of honor.
SEN. BERNIE SANDERS: Fine, if
that's the criticism,
I accept it. I demand that Wall
Street start
paying its fair share of taxes.
LISA DESJARDINS: From Martin
O'Malley...
MARTIN O'MALLEY (D),
Presidential Candidate:
I'm excited.
LISA DESJARDINS: ... came both
an admission
of and an argument about being
the underdog.
MARTIN O'MALLEY: In the history
of the state
of Iowa, Iowa has found a way to
sort through
the noise and to sort through
the national
polls and to lift up a new
leader for our
country at times when that was
critical and
essential.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: Hi.
WOMAN: Hi, Secretary Clinton.
LISA DESJARDINS: And Clinton
showed a kind
of quiet intensity when an Air
Force veteran
and Muslim American expressed
concern that
her children could face
discrimination. The
candidate blasted Republican
Donald Trump
as demeaning and dangerous.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON: He
started with Mexicans.
He's currently on Muslims. But I
found it
particularly harmful the way he
has talked
about Muslims, American Muslims
and Muslims
around the world.
LISA DESJARDINS: As for Trump:
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate:
I am angry. I'm angry about
ISIS. We can't
beat em.
LISA DESJARDINS: He was in New
Hampshire last
night. But, today, some of his
Republican
rivals were playing up the idea
of less divisive
rhetoric. Marco Rubio, back in
Iowa, painted
himself as a unity candidate.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate:
Even the people that say mean
things about
me, I'm going to keep their
families safe.
I will be a president for all
Americans, even
the ones that do not support me.
LISA DESJARDINS: John Kasich,
who just picked
up endorsements from The Boston
Globe and
Concord Monitor, spoke fireside
in New Hampshire.
GOV. JOHN KASICH (R-OH),
Presidential Candidate:
You can't always be with the
most popular.
OK? Sometimes, you have got to
just be with
the ones, the people that don't
have any power.
Somebody's got to speak for
them.
LISA DESJARDINS: And Ted Cruz
went for bucolic
optics, standing among hay bails
in Iowa and
picking up the endorsement of
one of Trump's
most vocal critics, former
candidate Rick
Perry.
RICK PERRY (R), Former Texas
Governor: He
loves his country. He loves that
Constitution.
LISA DESJARDINS: Endorsements,
handshakes
and rallies, every day now is an
intense fight
for votes.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm Lisa
Desjardins.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And we are
excited to share
some news about our election
coverage. This
year, we are teaming up with NPR
News to cover
the Democratic and Republican
Conventions
together. Throughout the year,
our teams will
also report on the big issues
affecting politics
in America.
We bring you our first joint
topic tonight:
the mood and emotions of the
electorate. It's
a theme for NPR'S "Morning
Edition," some
local NPR stations this week,
and here at
the "NewsHour." We are looking
at the politics
of fear.
As we just saw, the issue of
fear and terrorism
came up in the forum last night,
and some
of the candidates have employed
fear of terrorism
as a way to appeal to voters.
Republican Donald Trump has
called for a ban
on Muslims coming into the U.S.,
saying, "Our
country cannot be the victim of
tremendous
attacks by people who believe
only in jihad."
Senator Ted Cruz has warned,
"Our enemies
are not tired of killing us. And
they're getting
stronger," while Senator Marco
Rubio cautioned,
"What happened in Paris could
happen here.
These are radical terrorists who
want to kill
us."
Democratic candidate Hillary
Clinton has warned
of retaliation from Trump's
comments -- quote
-- "He is becoming ISIS' best
recruiter. They
are going to people showing
videos of Donald
Trump insulting Islam."
For our discussion on this,
we're joined now
by Stephen Walt, professor of
international
affairs at Harvard University,
and Beverly
Gage. She's a professor of 20th
century American
history at Yale University.
And we welcome you both.
Beverly Gage, to you first.
How long have candidates used
fear in one
form or another in American
politics? And
how successful has it been?
BEVERLY GAGE, Assistant
Professor of American
History, Yale University: Well,
I would like
to say it's a brand-new thing,
and we can
just tamp it down, but there's
always been
a certain element of fear
politics.
Really, if you look back to the
founding fathers,
they were accusing each other of
all sorts
of things. The Federalists were
accusing their
opponents of all sorts of
conspiracies. So,
I think we have a very long
history.
I do think, oftentimes, as we're
seeing today,
that history is tied up in both
foreign affairs
and then issues at home, issues
like race
and crime and immigration.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stephen Walt,
what about the
use of fear as a tactic through
history? How
successful do you think it's
been?
STEPHEN WALT, Harvard University
Kennedy School
of Government: Well, I think
it's been used
successfully by a number of
candidates in
the past and been used by
candidates from
both parties.
You will recall, in the late
'40s and early
1950s, the Truman administration
was accused
of losing China, being soft on
communism.
The claim was made by Joseph
McCarthy that
communists were infiltrating key
American
institutions.
And then, in 1960, John F.
Kennedy turned
the tables and accused the
Eisenhower administration
of also being weak, of allowing
a missile
gap to develop, even though none
existed.
So, this tactic of trying to
play on people's
fears and insecurities is a
pretty common
one, as Beverly said.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Beverly,
used pretty equally
by both political parties, or
has one party
or another used it more? What do
you see?
BEVERLY GAGE: Well, I certainly
think, in
the 20th century, you can go
cherry-picking
and find both parties using it.
So, probably the most famous
example of fear
politics in a campaign actually
was a Democrat
defaming a Republican, so,
Lyndon Johnson
and Barry Goldwater, Johnson's
famous ad that
showed a little girl picking off
the petals
of a daisy, accusing Barry
Goldwater being
about to foment nuclear war.
So, I think you can see it
happening on both
sides. But I think the more
interesting question
is sort of, what position are
candidates usually
in when they're using this kind
of politics?
And while there are exceptions,
it's often
candidates who are in the
opposition party,
and it's often candidates who
are trying to
appeal to people who feel like
they have something
to lose.
And if a candidate comes in and
says, that's
right, the terrible thing that
you fear may
happen is in fact going to
happen, that, unfortunately,
can be a pretty effective
tactic.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Stephen Walt,
telescope
that to this year. How do you
see it playing
out in this campaign? I just
used some quotes
from some of the candidates a
minute ago,
but what do you see?
STEPHEN WALT: Well, what I think
is interesting
about this campaign is the
degree to which
it's fear of the other, fear of
the alien,
fear of those who aren't really
fully American
or aren't potentially -- or
maybe disloyal
in some fashion, so pointing to
Mexican Americans,
pointing to Muslim Americans.
And this theme has actually been
throughout
Obama's presidency, when you
think about it,
the various bizarre accusations
that he wasn't
really American or he was
secretly Muslim
himself, this notion that
somehow these people
can't be trusted and real
Americans face dangers
that may be enormous.
And, again, we have seen this in
the past.
This was clearly part of the
McCarthy period.
But I think it's the thing that
is most telling
about 2016. And you even see it
in a slightly
different form with the Sanders
campaign suggesting
that most of the problems in
America are due
to the greedy 1 percenters of
Wall Street,
and if we could just get them
under control,
we would be fine.
So, I think that is what defines
the use of
fear in this particular
campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, Beverly
Gage, how do we
distinguish between what's a
responsible,
healthy debate over real threats
to this country,
vs. crossing a line into
something that's
just playing on people's fears
and insecurities?
BEVERLY GAGE: Right. Well, that
is the big
question.
So, often, we are dealing with
real issues.
So, terrorism is a real issue,
and, in fact,
immigration itself is also a
real issue. We
are now at peak levels of
immigration, levels
of immigration we haven't seen
really since
the turn of the last century.
So, there is
something driving this kind of
politics.
And I think the question is
exactly what you
have posed. How do you kind of
deal responsibly
with it? It would be nice to
say, well, you
just present the facts, but,
often, that actually
is not what really works. I
think Obama tried
to do that in terms of terrorism
at his State
of the Union, when he said, you
know, we're
not in the middle of World War
III. We are
not at risk as a nation.
But I'm not sure that actually
played very
well. I think, often, what can
make the real
difference is actually shifting
the debate
a little bit, acknowledging that
the problem
is real, and the question is not
how to freak
out about it, but, in fact, how
to begin to
deal with it constructively.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stephen Walt,
have you seen
examples of candidates handling
it well this
year? And who's responsible for
getting it
all straightened out and making
sure people
know what's -- what is
responsible, what's
healthy, and what's crossing a
line?
STEPHEN WALT: Well, certainly,
there's a role
for the candidates to challenge
each other.
And I think one of the things
candidates can
do is first force their rivals
to be specific.
Don't just point to some menace
whose dimensions
are being exaggerated, but force
people to
be concrete and specific about
the policies
that they would follow, what
they would do
differently, how they would make
the problem
manageable.
Don't treat it, again, as this
infinitely
large menace, but rather as a
practical problem
to be solved. There's also,
obviously, a role
here for the media in
challenging the various
claims from the candidates,
asking them for
specifics, asking them for
facts, and not
accepting magical solutions.
It shouldn't be acceptable for a
candidate
to be able to say, look, we're
facing a huge
danger here, but I have an easy
way to solve
this particular huge danger.
Then, finally, I think
candidates can play
a certain jujitsu on their
rivals by basically
saying, those who are
fear-mongering don't
have enough confidence in
America's basic
strengths, don't have confidence
in America's
institutions.
And I think Ronald Reagan was
the modern genius
at this. He used fear-mongering
in the 1980
campaign against Jimmy Carter,
but he also
managed to do it with a sense of
great optimism,
that America was fundamentally
good, fundamentally
strong, and these challenges
were something
it could overcome.
If any of the candidates can
manage that sweet
spot, they're likely to do
pretty well.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Beverly Gage,
that means
that there's promise out there
that candidates
will handle it well this year
and beyond?
BEVERLY GAGE: There is promise
out there.
I think there are also some dark
examples
from American history.
So, another moment in which
terrorism, immigration
was really on the table was in
the teens and
the '20s. And what we actually
got coming
out of that political moment
was, in fact,
pretty extreme immigration
restriction, as
well as the rise of the new Ku
Klux Klan during
that period.
So, I think there's a lot at
stake, and I
think we're still early in the
campaign, and
we will see how it goes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: A lot at stake.
And you're
right, we are really early in
the campaign.
(LAUGHTER)
JUDY WOODRUFF: We will see.
Beverly Gage, Stephen Walt, we
thank you both.
BEVERLY GAGE: Thank you, Judy.
STEPHEN WALT: Nice talking with
you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Stay with us,
coming up on
the "NewsHour": calls to screen
for depression
during pregnancy; a celebration
of Mozart's
genius and birthday; and a young
dancer challenging
gender stereotypes.
But, first, a new night for
education.
The "NewsHour" has long been
committed to
covering that topic. And
starting tonight,
we will be expanding our
coverage on Tuesdays
with a new feature series called
Making the
Grade. We will provide in-depth
reporting
on education issues at every
level, from early
childhood and preschool, all the
way through
high school and beyond with the
world of higher
education.
We will explore the most
fundamental concerns
in schools, communities and
workplaces, and
we will also cover plenty of
approaches you
may not have heard about yet.
Tonight, we focus on vocational
education.
There's a growing recognition of
its value
for some students. But how do
you determine
when it's working for the long
haul?
Special correspondent John
Tulenko of Education
Week has our story.
JOHN TULENKO: This year, more
than a million
students will graduate from high
school, and
most will go on to college. It
ought to be
something to celebrate, but, in
fact, nearly
40 percent of those who go to
four-year colleges
and some 70 percent of students
at community
college will never earn their
degree.
DAVID WHEELER, Principal,
Southern Regional
Vocational Technical High
School: It's the
shame of our nation, when you
look at, a student
comes out of high school, not
knowing what
they want to do, goes to
college, drops out.
Now they're in debt, without a
job, and not
knowing what they want to do.
They're worse
off than they were, you know, as
little as
a year before. And that's all
preventable,
all of it.
JOHN TULENKO: One solution,
principal Dave
Wheeler says, lies in schools
like his, Southeastern
Regional Vocational Technical
High School,
south of Boston.
Here, in addition to the regular
school subjects,
students learn skilled trades
and professions,
and, if they choose, instead of
college, they
can go directly into the work
force.
DAVID WHEELER: You can become
anything you
want here, if you take advantage
of what we
have.
JOHN TULENKO: Choosing a career
program starts
in ninth grade. Students spend
the first semester
sampling each of the roughly 20
professions
taught here.
Dajon Lopes (ph) chose culinary
arts.
DAJON LOPES, Student: We learn
to cook everything,
a whole bunch of foreign dishes,
American
dishes, anything. You name it,
we got it.
This right here is Asian scallop
saute.
JOHN TULENKO: Is this a new dish
for you?
DAJON LOPES: Yes. It's my first
time, matter
of fact.
JOHN TULENKO: The first time,
yes? May I?
PAULA KFOURY, Southeastern
Regional Vocational
Technical High School: It's not
like you're
opening a book and reading about
it.
JOHN TULENKO: Culinary arts
teacher Paula
Kfoury.
PAULA KFOURY: It's hands-on,
which is so different.
JOHN TULENKO: That's very nice.
PAULA KFOURY: They come in here
every day
and open a restaurant. And we do
all of the
functions for the school.
MAN: This car has -- gave us a
lot of problems.
JOHN TULENKO: In collision
repair, the work
is also real.
MAN: A customer brings in a car,
we, like,
do a estimate on it.
JOHN TULENKO: This is someone's
car?
MAN: Yes. And then, after that
we call the
customer up, we tell them how
much it will
cost, and we start repairing it.
DAVID WHEELER: Almost all of our
shops do
some form of, we call it live
work. Cosmetology
takes clients. Construction, we
have done
complete renovations of
buildings. We have
done Web sites for people. We do
printing.
There is no better way to engage
a student
than they're doing real,
meaningful work.
JOHN TULENKO: Of course, they
also do academics.
Every other week, students are
in traditional
classes full-time.
DAVID WHEELER: Every single kid
is going to
learn algebra. Everyone's going
to get a high-level
literature class. Everyone's
going to get
physics.
JOHN TULENKO: On the state math
test, 73 percent
of students scored above
proficient, in English,
90 percent, numbers that nearly
match state
averages. And Southeastern's 93
percent graduation
rate is better than average.
On the flip side, SAT scores and
scores on
advanced placement tests lag
significantly
behind the state as a whole.
But, for Dave
Wheeler, those are not the
numbers that matter
most.
DAVID WHEELER: When we do
follow-up studies,
generally speaking, we hit the
90 -- high
90 percent range of students
that are either
in the work force, continue to
be enrolled
in college, or have gone into
the military.
The point is to get you to be a
happy, productive
citizen.
JOHN TULENKO: This approach is
getting lots
of attention from reformers
these days, who
see it as a way to improve
engagement and
achievement in high schools.
But career and technical
education, or CTE,
as it's sometimes called, has
its critics.
CAROL BURRIS, Network for Public
Education:
Even though that is what people
are touting
as a possibility, rigorous CTE
programs, in
the reality, I don't think it's
going to happen.
JOHN TULENKO: During her 15
years as an award-winning
high school principal in New
York state, Carol
Burris had an insider's view on
these programs.
CAROL BURRIS: I think a lot of
schools will
take kids that are behavior
issues and will
say, you know what, I think
technical education
is where you need to be. I think
they will
take kids who have learning
disabilities,
and rather than work with them
in academics,
push them on that track. We just
know that
historically.
JOHN TULENKO: Almost from the
start, high
schools were organized into
tracks, with separate
programs for students bound for
college and
those bound for work.
MICHAEL PETRILLI, The Thomas B.
Fordham Institute:
And, oftentimes, the way the
system made that
decision was based on the color
of their skin
or by their zip code. You can
imagine that
it was mostly kids of color and
low-income
kids who were shuffled into
vocational programs,
many of which were terrible.
JOHN TULENKO: But Mike Petrilli
who heads
the Thomas Fordham Institute, an
education
think tank, says a major shift
was coming.
MIKE PETRILLI: There was a big
effort to de-track
the high schools and the middle
schools starting
the late 1980s, early '90s,
which was very
successful in most big cities.
TONY CARNEVALE, Georgetown
University: We
decided that we were going to
give academic
education, which essentially
teaches abstraction,
we decided to give that to
everybody through
high school.
JOHN TULENKO: The mission of
public schools
changed, says economist Tony
Carnevale, and
college became the goal.
TONY CARNEVALE: The basic
American model is
high school to Harvard. The
difficulty with
that is, it doesn't work for
most students.
You ask the teacher, why am I
taking this
course? And they will say, well,
you need
it for college, and that's
enough. For a lot
of kids, that's not enough.
JOHN TULENKO: Many arrive at
college unprepared,
fall behind and drop out.
MIKE PETRILLI: It would be a lot
better for
those people to go out into the
work force,
get some real skills, and maybe
down the road
they would be ready then to go
and get a postsecondary
credential.
JUSTIN MEEKS, Southeastern
Regional Vocational
Technical High School Graduate:
Schoolwork
wasn't -- I wasn't the greatest
at it. I feel
like I'm more of a hands-on
person.
JOHN TULENKO: For Justin Meeks,
fabricating
metal was a better fit. He
learned the trade
at Southeastern and, through an
apprenticeship
arranged by the school, landed a
full-time
job just days after graduation.
JUSTIN MEEKS, School prepared me
well for
this. I weld here a lot. I have
to cut well
on here and very accurate.
JOHN TULENKO: You can't make a
mistake on
a beam like this.
JUSTIN MEEKS: Yes, you can't fix
it.
JOHN TULENKO: If you don't mind
my asking,
how much do you make?
JUSTIN MEEKS: Fourteen
sixty-six. And if I
can keep getting more money and
more money,
and a raise, and working harder,
I think I
could be fine without college.
JOHN TULENKO: Is this a success?
MIKE PETRILLI: First of all,
let's look at
the alternative. If this was a
young person
who wasn't doing well in school,
if he hadn't
been engaged in something that
really motivated
him, he probably would have
dropped out or
maybe he would have made it to
graduation,
and then that was it. And then
he'd be going
into the work force and lucky to
get a minimum
wage job. This is a much better
outcome.
JOHN TULENKO: And Petrilli says
vocational
schools like Justin's are
different these
days, because, at places like
Southeastern,
tracking is a thing of the past.
MIKE PETRILLI: It's very
important that the
pathways are chosen by the kids
themselves.
We want to provide options, and
let the young
people make decisions.
CAROL BURRIS: I think it's very
dangerous.
I have seen so many kids who
have been academic
late bloomers, who all of sudden
they mature
and they buckle down and they do
their studies
and they go on to college.
When you start to push kids when
they are
too young to make that decision,
they're just
not ready to make it.
JOHN TULENKO: But that's not
stopping families
from enrolling their teenagers
at Southeastern.
This year, some 800 students
applied for 400
spots.
In South Easton, Massachusetts,
I'm John Tulenko
of Education Week, reporting for
the "PBS
NewsHour."
JUDY WOODRUFF: A federal health
panel is now
calling for all women to be
screened for depression
during pregnancy and again after
giving birth.
The U.S. Preventive Services
Task Force says
there's new evidence that
postpartum depression
is more common than previously
believed. The
report also recommends that all
adults over
18 be screened for depression.
William Brangham zeros in on the
new guidelines
and how they apply to women
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Today's
recommendations
follow recent research
suggesting that as
many as one in five women may
develop depression,
anxiety or other forms of mental
illness within
a year of giving birth.
Joining me to discuss this is
Dr. Hal Lawrence.
He's a longtime OB/GYN and
currently the CEO
of the American Congress of
Obstetricians
and Gynecologists.
Dr. Lawrence, welcome. Thank you
for being
here.
DR. HAL LAWRENCE, CEO, American
Congress of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists:
Thank you
for inviting us.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: What was your
reaction when
you first heard these
guidelines? Was this
good news to you?
DR. HAL LAWRENCE: It's excellent
news to us.
At the American Congress of
Obstetricians
and Gynecologists, we have been
aware for
decades about the risk of
postpartum depression,
and, in all honesty, the risk of
depression
in women at any -- throughout
their life.
You know, one in five women, or
20 percent
of all women, will have a major
depressive
episode during their lifetime,
and pregnancy
and other stressful events
increase that for
them.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Why is it --
I'm curious.
Just why is it that pregnancy is
a particular
trigger for that?
DR. HAL LAWRENCE: Well, it's
such a stressful
time. And everybody looks at
pregnancy as
this joyous moment.
And it is joyous, and you have a
healthy mother,
and you have a healthy baby. But
there's also
a lot of stress. That woman's
life has changed.
She feels -- she's so dedicated
to her baby.
And then anything that makes her
feel uncomfortable,
she questions herself: Am I
doing the right
thing? Am I doing it good
enough?
And for some women, that just
sort of works
through with the postpartum
blues, which almost
every postpartum patient has.
But, by a week
or two or three weeks, that
really passes.
But for about 20 percent, it
doesn't. It hangs
on for a while, and they
actually have some
depression. And then, for a much
smaller group,
around 2 percent, they can
actually go into
something called postpartum
psychosis, which
they can have ideations of
suicide, hurting
themselves, hurting their baby.
And it's all because of the
stress of that
period, and at times feelings of
not being
what they want to be or being
what people
expect them to be.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: These
recommendations indicate
that mothers should be screened
not just after
the birth, but during their
pregnancy. And
I wonder why -- is it that signs
during pregnancy
tend to show up?
DR. HAL LAWRENCE: Well, as I
said, we know
that 20 percent of all women
will have some
depression during their
lifetime, and so some
women actually enter pregnancy
with some signs
of depression.
Some may have already had a
diagnosis of depression
or psychological illness, and
those people
are at increased risk. So,
picking that up
early, or if you don't know
about it, helps
you be careful about those
parents when they
become postpartum.
So, screening during pregnancy
is very important.
Screening postpartum is very
important, and
screening, you know, earlier
than even six
weeks. You know, it's
interesting. Many times,
the pediatricians who are seeing
the babies
back for growth checks and
weight gain and
all that will pick up on this,
because there
will be...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Pick up on the
mother's
behavior.
DR. HAL LAWRENCE: Exactly,
because there's
this detachment between the mom
and the baby,
which is not normal.
And they -- oftentimes, the
pediatricians
will call and say, hey, there's
something
going on here. You need to see
Mrs. Jones,
because it's -- they sense that.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: If you were a
doctor sitting
opposite me, what does a
screening for depression
look like or sound like?
DR. HAL LAWRENCE: Well,
actually, there are
some tools that are out there.
They have this
Edinburgh postpartum depression
screen, which
has a series of questions that
are very simple
and straightforward. It takes
just a few minutes
for the patients to fill out.
You can quickly grade it, and
based on how
you grade it, gives you an idea
as to how
this woman's emotional stability
is at that
time. So, we recommend that or a
tool like
that for everybody to utilize.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The reason I
ask about this
is that whenever we have a --
for instance,
a major episode of gun violence,
people always
talk about the need to increase
mental health
care in this country.
And one of the retorts to that
is always,
we don't have the mental health
infrastructure
to handle all those people. I'm
just wondering,
do you think that there's a
concern that these
guidelines might be recommending
services
that we don't have the ability
to deliver?
DR. HAL LAWRENCE: Well, I think
we have to
have the ability to deliver
those services.
And, yes, there is a good reason
to expand
mental health services in this
country. But
when you look at the postpartum
patient, I
think it's really a team. Yes,
oftentimes,
you need a psychologist or a
psychiatrist,
but, many times, you need an
alert pediatrician,
an alert and sensitive
obstetrician/gynecologist,
family members who see this is
going on, and
that team working to help
support and ensure
that the mother's getting the
support and
care she needs.
We have to -- when we recognize
it -- I mean,
I have practiced for almost 30
years and delivered
over 5,000 babies. I have made
this diagnosis.
I have started these people on
treatment.
You have to do that and see if
you can't get
them healthy.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Dr. Hal
Lawrence of the
American Congress of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists,
thank you very much.
DR. HAL LAWRENCE: Thank you.
It's a pleasure
to be here.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now: genius in
three notes.
Tomorrow marks Wolfgang Amadeus
Mozart's birthday.
We celebrate with a conversation
Jeffrey Brown
had recently with composer and
pianist Rob
Kapilow, who deconstructs music
for us from
time to time.
They met up at the Signature
Theatre in Arlington,
Virginia.
JEFFREY BROWN: Happy birthday,
Mozart, right?
ROB KAPILOW, Composer: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Welcome, Rob
Kapilow.
Let's start by acknowledging
this is one of
the world's great musical
geniuses, right?
ROB KAPILOW: So true. I mean,
just, whenever
you think of musical prodigy,
who do you think
of but Mozart? Writing simple
keyboard pieces
at 5, violin sonatas and
orchestral music
at 6 and 7, first symphony at 9.
It's really
disgusting, if you're a composer
like me.
You just don't even want to
think about Mozart's
birthday.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, so
there's a whole
world of Mozart to choose from.
You picked
Symphony Number 40, right, the
famous G minor,
and the beginning of that. So,
first, remind
us a little of how that...
ROB KAPILOW: Right. Yes. This is
on everybody's
cell phone ring tone.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
ROB KAPILOW: Everyone has heard
this, even
if you think you have never
heard a note of...
JEFFREY BROWN: Right.
(CROSSTALK)
ROB KAPILOW: ... music, this is
the one you
have heard.
For
many generations of kids, this
was actually
ruined as, it's a bird, it's a
plane, no,
it's Mozart. And now I have
ruined it for
generations of television
viewers as well.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes. Yes. So, why
pick that?
Why? Why?
ROB KAPILOW: I picked this
because, for one,
it's the most famous or one of
the most famous
themes that Mozart ever wrote.
But what happens to it is
amazing. I often
say that classical music is
really about becoming,
not being.
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: Becoming, not
being.
ROB KAPILOW: Yes. It's not what
a musical
idea is when you first hear it,
what it is
to be, but it's about what it
can become or
how it transforms over the
course of a piece
of music.
Now, in and of itself, while
that's a famous
theme, it's not that amazing, in
and of itself.
It has got a three-note idea.
That's not so
great. He does it once, does it
again, a third
time, and then leaps up.
So, I'm now going to ruin this
again for a
new generation. I'm going to
call it, do it
once, do it twice, and then leap
up. In and
of itself, that's not so
fantastic by itself.
The second half sounds
completely different.
It just goes down a scale.
Though the two
halves are actually connected,
they rhyme,
they have the same rhythm.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right.
ROB KAPILOW: Now, in and of
itself, if Mozart
had stopped there, we wouldn't
be celebrating
his birthday hundreds of years
later. It's
not that great.
But what happens to it over the
course of
the piece is amazing. Let's skip
ahead to
the middle of the piece. All of
a sudden,
we end up here. This is a normal
place to
end. All of a sudden, three
abrupt chords
take to us a completely
different place. Where
are we? We hear our opening.
Now, originally, it was here. We
are now starting
on a different note, what we
call transposing,
and we do it here. All sounds
normal.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
ROB KAPILOW: Everyone expects to
hear this,
but, instead, we get
first shock.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's through
the key change
first, yes? Yes.
ROB KAPILOW: Absolutely, first
three key changes,
and then change the melody. Then
we do it
again.
Everyone expects -- but, no, we
get second
shock. Then we hear it again,
third time,
even lower. And then the piece
just takes
off.
Now, this is like a character in
a novel who
you think you have met. You
think you understand
them. But now, all of a sudden,
what he's
going to do is almost
Beethovenian. Now, Beethoven
was actually only 18 years old
and still a
babe in the woods, but this is
fundamentally
Beethovenian.
What's he's going to do is take
an eight-measure
melody, reduce it to four
measures, reduce
it to two measures, 10 notes,
seven notes,
and finally the whole universe
will get summed
up in only three notes. So,
watch this.
JEFFREY BROWN: The whole
universe.
ROB KAPILOW: The whole universe
in three notes,
a cosmic essence.
JEFFREY BROWN: OK.
ROB KAPILOW: We hear Mozart
think out loud.
What I can do? And he says what
if I just...
(CROSSTALK)
JEFFREY BROWN: Even those three
notes, what...
ROB KAPILOW: Yes, what can I do
with these
three notes?
And it's not much. Right? This
is not great.
He says, what if I just take the
ending and
put it down here in the flute
and oboe, and
overlap like this? Try it up
higher, even
higher.
Trying to find out, what does
the idea mean?
And then the ultimate final step
is, we reduce
the whole thing to nothing but
the first three
notes. Who would dream that this
could be
the topic for an entire piece?
JEFFREY BROWN: We started,
though, this conversation
about genius. Your case is that
that is sort
of the essence of it, is taking
something
simple, creating a whole
universe in a sense.
ROB KAPILOW: Exactly.
There's that quote from Ezra
Pound, genius
is the capacity to see 10 things
where the
ordinary man sees one. We just
hear that opening
idea, but he sees, as you have
just heard,
at least 20 things in an idea
that we never
could have imagined.
A great Mark Twain quote: "There
never was
yet an uninteresting life."
Inside the dullest exterior,
there is a drama,
a comedy and a tragedy. And
Mozart heard the
drama, comedy, and tragedy in
all of us, and
turned it into music.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, happy
birthday,
Mozart.
Rob Kapilow, thanks so much.
ROB KAPILOW: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Great music.
And, finally, the story of a
young dancer
from Pennsylvania striving to
find his place
among his peers while battling
sports stereotypes
and his own anxieties.
This is the second in our series
from Student
Reporting Labs called Outside
the Box, profiles
of high school and middle school
students
bravely challenging today's
gender stereotypes.
SEAN VARNER, Dance Student,
Cedar Crest High
School: I have danced for eight
years, jazz,
tap, and ballet, as well as
lyrical, modern,
and contemporary.
When I first started, I was
afraid to tell
people. Some of them don't ever
agree with
it or accept it.
EDWARD VARNER, Father of Sean
Varner: I think
boys are often stigmatized and
encouraged
to do something else. It's a lot
easier for
a parent to give a boy a
baseball bat or a
football and say, that's my boy.
SEAN VARNER: Most of the guys
don't react
too well, just like try and poke
fun at me.
EDWARD VARNER: I think Sean has
probably lost
friends, but, from my parental
perspective,
I think those have been minimal.
He's really
connected with a niche group of
people who
like him for who he is.
SEAN VARNER: There are some days
when it gets
to me. People typically say,
like, it's girlish
or feminine and it's not a real
sport.
When I'm not dancing, it
probably does the
opposite of helping me with my
anxiety. When
I'm actually dancing, it helps a
lot, and
it just gives me peace.
EDWARD VARNER: Dance allows him
to address
the anxiety that builds up in
him by being
able to be extremely physical.
It's very good
for him to release some of that
pent-up energy.
SEAN VARNER: I am pretty nervous
to go up
to the high school, just because
I'm not sure
exactly how people will react.
It will probably
get harder.
EDWARD VARNER: You have to
choose to surround
yourself with people who help
lift you up
and separate yourself from those
who are all
about tearing you down. Step up
there, put
it out there, and say, this is
who I am. There's
something about the arts that
gives life and
purpose and meaning to life.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Impressive.
And to see more youth-produced
stories about
how gender stereotypes affect
teenagers, visit
the Outside the Box page on our
PBS.org/NewsHour
home page.
Also online right now: You can
pay an arm
and a leg for a small bottle of
water at the
airport. Making Sense columnist
John Komlos
offers an economic lesson in why
we pay such
a steep price and what should be
done about
it. All that and more is on our
Web site.
Again, that's PBS.org/NewsHour.
And tune in later tonight on
"Charlie Rose":
former Defense Secretary Donald
Rums on the
administration's decision to
send troops back
to Iraq.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm
Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening. For all of us at the
"PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.